clockstaR/clockaholic instructions
November 21 2012

1. Open R

2. Set the working directory to where you want the output files. This is not necessary but a specific file for all the results may be more convenient. Use the setwd() function if you wish to change the default working directory.

3. Now we need to load the code for clockstaR as source:
	3.1 Type ' source("drag the code here")	'
	3.2 Press enter. If an error is reported make sure there are no spaces in the file path (where you dragged the code)

4. To make sure everything is loaded correctly type 'ls()'. You should see a list of function and the objects loaded in R. For runing this script we want to have an object called 'run.clockstaR'

5. Now locate the file with the data. The file should contain fasta or nexus alignments for each partition (in separate files) and a tree for the phylogenetic relationships among the taxa. Note that alignments don't need to contain all the taxa in the tree.

6.1 We can now run clockstaR in beta mode. Type the following in the R prompt:
'run.clockster("drag the file with the data here", mode.run="beta" , beta.min= 'select a number for the beta threshold value')

6.2 Alternatively, we can also run clockstaR in k mode. In this case it will output which alignments should be grouped together given a number of partitions. In this case type in the following in the R prompt:
'run.clockster("drag the file with the data here", mode.run="k", k= 'select the number of partions')

6.3 The output format will be thesame in both modes but the interpretation may be somewhat different.

7. Type enter and wait for results. The script will print "FINISHED RUN" when finished.

8. The output is explained bellow:

In the data file:
optimized.trees - This file contains the trees for all the partitions (branch lengths optimized)

In the working directory:
bsd.plots.pdf - Contains the histogram for the bsd among all partitions, the bsd dendrogram, and the K number of groups for beta values from the selected beta/10 to selected beta *10.

scaling.factors.txt - The matrix with the pariwise scaling factors between all partitions

partitions.txt - A list with the number of groups and partitions according to the selected beta

bds.distances - The matrix with the pairwise bsd distances among all partitions

bsd.dendrogram - The dendrogram for bsd distances in newick format

models.csv - models selected for all partitions


9. If this fails with your own data, please check the example files by running them as follows (this should produce no errors):

source("drag clockstaR code here")
run.clockstaR("drag example.files here", beta.min=0.05)


